DOCS-1258: Make ML training API page (#2164)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/program/apis/ml_training_client.md

---
title: "Work with ML Training Jobs with Viam's ML Training API"
linkTitle: "ML Training Client"
weight: 10
type: "docs"
description: "Use the ML training client API to manage ML training jobs taking place in Viam's cloud app."
tags: ["cloud", "sdk", "viam-server", "networking", "apis", "ml model", "ml"]
---

> The ML training API allows you to get data from and cancel ML training jobs taking place on the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com).

Reviewer: Same suggestion as above. I feel like get data from makes me think that we can get the training data somehow from API

Author: Makes sense!

> The ML training API allows you to get data from and cancel ML training jobs taking place on the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com).

Author: ```suggestion
The ML training API allows you to get information about and cancel ML training jobs taking place on the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
```

{{% alert title="Support Notice" color="note" %}}

ML training client API methods are only available in the Python SDK.

{{% /alert %}}

## Establish a connection

To use the Viam ML training client API, you first need to instantiate a [`ViamClient`](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/app/viam_client/index.html#viam.app.viam_client.ViamClient) and then instantiate an [`MLTrainingClient`](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/app/viam_client/index.html#viam.app.viam_client.ViamClient.ml_training_client).
See the following example for reference.

<!-- After sveltekit migration we should also be able to get a key from the UI-->

> Use the Viam CLI [to generate an api key for your organization](https://docs.viam.com/manage/cli/#create-an-organization-api-key).

Author: ```suggestion
Select **Include API Key** on the **Code sample** page of the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) to obtain your API key and API key ID values.
```

import asyncio

from viam.rpc.dial import DialOptions, Credentials
from viam.app.viam_client import ViamClient

async def connect() -> ViamClient:
    dial_options = DialOptions(
      credentials=Credentials(
        type="api-key",
        # Replace "<API-KEY>" (including brackets) with your robot's api key
        payload='<API-KEY>',
      ),
      # Replace "<API-KEY-ID>" (including brackets) with your robot's api key
      # id
      auth_entity='<API-KEY-ID>'
    )
    return await ViamClient.create_from_dial_options(dial_options)

async def main():

    # Make a ViamClient
    viam_client = await connect()
    # Instantiate an MLTrainingClient to run ML training client API methods on
    ml_training_client = viam_client.ml_training_client

    viam_client.close()

if __name__ == '__main__':
    asyncio.run(main())
```

Once you have instantiated an `MLTrainingClient`, you can run the following [API methods](#api) against the `MLTrainingClient` object (named `ml_training_client` in the examples).

## API

The ML training client API supports the following methods:

{{< readfile "/static/include/services/apis/ml-training-client.md" >}}

### GetTrainingJob

> Get training job data.

Reviewer: Instead of training job data, how about training job metadata or information?

Author: That sounds good to me, changing

> Get training job data.

Author: ```suggestion
Get training job metadata.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

> - `id` [(str)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#text-sequence-type-str): ID of the training job you wish to get data from. Retrieve this value with [`ListTrainingJobs()`](#listtrainingjobs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `id` [(str)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#text-sequence-type-str): ID of the training job you wish to get metadata from. Retrieve this value with [`ListTrainingJobs()`](#listtrainingjobs).
```

**Returns**:

- [(TrainingJobMetadata)](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/app/mltraining/index.html#viam.proto.app.mltraining.TrainingJobMetadata): Training job metadata, including status, last modified timestamp, id, and more.

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
job_metadata = await ml_training_client.get_training_job(
    id="INSERT YOUR JOB ID")
```

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/app/ml_training_client/index.html#viam.app.ml_training_client.MLTrainingClient.get_training_job).

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### ListTrainingJobs

> Get training job data for all jobs within an organization.

Author: ```suggestion
Get training job metadata for all jobs within an organization.
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

> - `org_id` [(str)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#text-sequence-type-str): The ID of your organization to request training job data from. Retrieve this value with the cloud management API's [`ListOrganizations()`](/program/apis/cloud/#listorganizations).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `org_id` [(str)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#text-sequence-type-str): The ID of your organization to request training job metadata from. Retrieve this value with the cloud management API's [`ListOrganizations()`](/program/apis/cloud/#listorganizations).
```

> - `training_status` [(Optional[TrainingStatus.ValueType])](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/app/mltraining/v1/ml_training_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.app.mltraining.v1.ml_training_pb2.TrainingStatus): The status of training jobs you want to filter the list by.

Reviewer: might be worth calling out that if you leave this unspecified, we will get all training jobs for an org.

Author: Done!

> - `training_status` [(Optional[TrainingStatus.ValueType])](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/app/mltraining/v1/ml_training_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.app.mltraining.v1.ml_training_pb2.TrainingStatus): The status of training jobs you want to filter the list by.

Author: ```suggestion
- `training_status` [(Optional[TrainingStatus.ValueType])](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/app/mltraining/v1/ml_training_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.app.mltraining.v1.ml_training_pb2.TrainingStatus): The status of training jobs you want to filter the list by. If you leave this unspecified, all training jobs for your organization are returned.
```

**Returns**:

- [(List[TrainingJobMetadata])](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/app/mltraining/index.html#viam.proto.app.mltraining.TrainingJobMetadata): A list of training job metadata, including status, last modified timestamp, id, and more.

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
jobs_metadata = await ml_training_client.list_training_jobs(
    org_id="INSERT YOUR ORG ID")

first_job_id = jobs_metadata[1].id
```

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/app/ml_training_client/index.html#viam.app.ml_training_client.MLTrainingClient.list_training_jobs).

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### CancelTrainingJob

Cancel the specified training job.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

> - `id` [(str)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#text-sequence-type-str): ID of the training job you wish to get data from. Retrieve this value with [`ListTrainingJobs()`](#listtrainingjobs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `id` [(str)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#text-sequence-type-str): ID of the training job you wish to get metadata from. Retrieve this value with [`ListTrainingJobs()`](#listtrainingjobs).
```

**Returns**:

- None

**Raises**:

> - `GRPCError`: If no training job exists with the given ID.

Reviewer: Calling out there could be an error for other reasons too. Maybe `If no training job exists with the given ID or cancelation was otherwise unsuccessful.`

> - `GRPCError`: If no training job exists with the given ID.

Author: ```suggestion
- `GRPCError`: If no training job exists with the given ID or cancellation was otherwise unsuccessful.
```

    # Instantiate an MLTrainingClient to run ML training client API methods on
    ml_training_client = viam_client.ml_training_client

    viam_client.close()

if __name__ == '__main__':
    asyncio.run(main())
```

Once you have instantiated an `MLTrainingClient`, you can run the following [API methods](#api) against the `MLTrainingClient` object (named `ml_training_client` in the examples).

## API

The ML training client API supports the following methods:

{{< readfile "/static/include/services/apis/ml-training-client.md" >}}

### GetTrainingJob

Get training job data.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `id` [(str)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#text-sequence-type-str): ID of the training job you wish to get data from. Retrieve this value with [`ListTrainingJobs()`](#listtrainingjobs).

**Returns**:

- [(TrainingJobMetadata)](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/app/mltraining/index.html#viam.proto.app.mltraining.TrainingJobMetadata): Training job metadata, including status, last modified timestamp, id, and more.

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
job_metadata = await ml_training_client.get_training_job(

>     id="INSERT YOUR JOB ID"
>     )

Reviewer 2: slightly weird formatting
```suggestion
    id="INSERT YOUR JOB ID")
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### ListTrainingJobs

Get training job data for all jobs within an organization.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `org_id` [(str)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#text-sequence-type-str): The ID of your organization to request training job data from. Retrieve this value with the cloud management API's [`ListOrganizations()`](/program/apis/cloud/#listorganizations).
- `training_status` [(Optional[TrainingStatus.ValueType])](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/gen/app/mltraining/v1/ml_training_pb2/index.html#viam.gen.app.mltraining.v1.ml_training_pb2.TrainingStatus): The status of training jobs you want to filter the list by.

**Returns**:

- [(List[TrainingJobMetadata])](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/proto/app/mltraining/index.html#viam.proto.app.mltraining.TrainingJobMetadata): A list of training job metadata, including status, last modified timestamp, id, and more.

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
jobs_metadata = await ml_training_client.list_training_jobs(

>     org_id="INSERT YOUR ORG ID"
>     )

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    org_id="INSERT YOUR ORG ID")
```

first_job_id = jobs_metadata[1].id
```

For more information, see the [Python SDK Docs](https://python.viam.dev/autoapi/viam/app/ml_training_client/index.html#viam.app.ml_training_client.MLTrainingClient.list_training_jobs).

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

### CancelTrainingJob

Cancel the specified training job.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Python" %}}

**Parameters:**

- `id` [(str)](https://docs.python.org/3/library/stdtypes.html#text-sequence-type-str): ID of the training job you wish to get data from. Retrieve this value with [`ListTrainingJobs()`](#listtrainingjobs).

**Returns**:

- None

**Raises**:

- `GRPCError`: If no training job exists with the given ID.

```python {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
await ml_training_client.cancel_training_job(

>     id="INSERT YOUR JOB ID"
>     )

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    id="INSERT YOUR JOB ID")
```
